# Extracted from: Project Phase 3 - Final Design and Project Timeline.docx

	Weight:	20%

	Marks:	/50

# Project: Phase 3 – Final Design and Project Timeline

## Introduction

You have reached the third checkpoint in creating a software design for your external client. At this point, your instructor has provided you with formal feedback on the first two phases of your design. In Phase 3, you will implement that feedback and continue to develop your design by adding new requirements.

It is important to note that this is an iterative process. You should not expect to write this document without regular revisions. It’s important that your team discusses the system and its processes while continuing to revise the document. As you work through this process, you’ll discover new ideas and concepts. 

While some class time will be allocated to work on this project, most of the work will be done outside of the classroom. Your instructor will periodically review your work as you progress and will provide guidance. You have approximately three weeks to complete this phase of the project. Refer to Brightspace for exact due dates.

## Equipment and Materials

For this project, you will need:

Diagramming software such as Software Ideas Modeler (SIM)

Word processing software such as MS Word

UI design program such as FIGMA

## Instructions

Read through the detailed instructions and marking criteria contained in this document.

Using your submission from Phase 2 as a starting point, work with your team to implement your instructor’s feedback. Reach out to your instructor as needed for clarification. 

Develop your existing design document by expanding and adding sections, as outlined in the Documentation Requirements section. 

Submit your completed preliminary analysis document to Brightspace by the posted due date. 

Demonstrate your small system prototype to your instructor. 

## Documentation Requirements

To analyze and design a system, it is vital to understand the processes of that system. Your design document is a model of the system processes and how the system will be built. Your design document already contains the following sections:

Statement of the project and project sponsor

Use case diagrams and use case descriptions in extended format

Revised class diagram

Preliminary user interface design

Data storage and persistence

Entity diagram

System architecture and patterns

Team constitution

In this phase, add the following sections:

#### Sequence Diagrams

With your instructor’s guidance, create three Sequence Diagrams from the use cases chosen by your instructor. **team decision: no diagrams for login**

#### Activity Diagrams and/or State Machine Diagrams

Create one Activity Diagram and one State Machine Diagram OR two Activity Diagrams OR two State Machine Diagrams, as required by your instructor. ** team decision: dashboard and AI chatbot for activity diagrams, no state machine diagram**

#### Small System Prototype

Referring to your proposed system architecture, create the necessary packages and classes that correspond to your design. The classes you implement should list their attributes and the methods as described in your Class Diagram. 

Note:	You only need to include the method signatures (skeleton code). Except for the small prototype (see below), the methods do not need to be fully completed.

Prototype the login sequence and one other non-trivial use case that you have described in your document. Discuss with your instructor what must function for the demonstration. **team decision: carbon footprint as non-trivial use case**

Demonstrate your prototype to your instructor and include the source code as a separate submission with your design document.

#### Work Breakdown Structure and Gantt Chart (done)

A successful project requires effective time management. You will be provided with a course schedule for PROJ 309: Capstone Project, including presentations, code reviews and deadlines for submission. Use this information to guide the creation of your project work breakdown structure and Gantt chart.

The Work Breakdown Structure and Gantt chart must identify progress and milestones throughout the semester. It must indicate what each team member is responsible for.

Submit the Gantt chart as a separate file.

### Submission Requirements

Formatting and Completeness: Your document must continue to conform to the formatting guidelines outlined in Phase 1. Spelling and grammar errors will result in grade deductions, and there are significant penalties for missing or incomplete elements.

Diagrams and Descriptions: These must comply with the UML guidelines from the course textbook and class examples. Marks will be deducted for errors.

Consistency: Ensure consistency between the descriptions and all diagrams. 

Example: Your Sequence, Activity and State Machine Diagrams must reference classes and methods listed in your Class Diagram.

Your submission should include:

Your completed final design and project timeline document submitted as a single .docx or .pdf file

A zipped folder containing the small system prototype files

Your Gantt chart as either MS Project or Gantt Project file.

Only one submission is required per group. The submission must be received by the due date posted in Brightspace.

## Marking Criteria


| Categories | 0 Marks | 6 Marks | 10 Marks | Marks |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Sequence Diagrams | Incomplete or missing information. | Minor errors. Missing elements or inconsistencies. | Complete and correct diagrams | /10 |
| Activity Diagrams | Incomplete or missing components. | Minor errors or missing descriptions. | Accurate examples of described workflow and/or state machines | /10 |
| Gantt Chart, Work, Breakdown Structure, Estimate | Incomplete or missing components. | Errors and inconsistencies. Missing information. | Complete and correct. | /10 |
| Categories | 0 Marks | 13 Marks | 20 Marks | Marks |
| System Prototype | Incomplete/Non-functional | Partial functionality. | Complete demonstration | /20 |
| Total | Total | Total | Total | /50 |

